# Il-28

## ADCs

- [Il-28](Il-28.json)
- [Il-28R](Il-28R.json)
- [Il-28N](Il-28N.json)

## Original ADCs

Il-28 from TSOH.

## Notes and Changes

### Bomb Load

The TSOH ADC shows two underwing pylons each with a capacity of 1800 lb for BB, RP, or FT. I can find no evidence that the original Il-28 could carry weapons under the wings. I have deleted these from the bomber version.

The TSOH ADC has a total load limit of 6,600, but the bomb bay load limit is only 4,400. Both Goebel and Wikipedia state that it could carry the FAB-3000, although a more normal load was 2,200 lb. I have increased the load limit of the bomb bay and added this option.

### Il-28R

I assume the cameras and associated equipment weigh 2,000 lb = 2 load points. Thus, reduce the load point limits by this much.

The wing-tip tanks (Goebel) from the TSOH ADC have a stated capacity is 28 fuel points each (which I round to 25), which is about 350L. Goebel states that the fuselage fuel tanks extended into the rear of the bomb bay. The maximum fuel might be half of the bomb load, so perhaps 3,000 lb or 150 fuel points. I have increased the internal fuel capacity from 565 to 765 fuel points.

For other bombers, we have 1 load point = 50 fuel points. I would propose that fuel above the standard limit of 565 counts at this rate. Thus, a full fuel load would be 4 additional load points.

### Il-28N

Able to carry the RDS-4 (Goebel).

This has wing-tip tanks, like the Il-28R (Goebel).

## Additional Version

- Il-28T torpedo bomber
- Il-28REB jammer

## Bibliography

- [Goebel](https://www.airvectors.net/avil28.html)
- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ilyushin_Il-28)
