# B-26/A-26

## ADCs

- [B-26B (Two Turrets)](B-26B%20(Two%20Turrets).json)
- [B-26B (One Turret)](B-26B%20(One%20Turret).json)
- [B-26B (No turrets)](B-26B%20(No%20Turrets).json)
- [B-26C (Two Turrets)](B-26C%20(Two%20Turrets).json)
- [B-26C (One Turret)](B-26C%20(One%20Turret).json)
- [B-26C (No turrets)](B-26C%20(No%20Turrets).json)
- [B-26K](B-26K.json)
- [A-26A](A-26A.json)

## Notes and Changes

### Original ADCs

The original ADCs are from APJ 51.

### Versions

Originally designated the A-26B/C, but redesigned as the B-26B/C in 1948 (Baughter).

The early version B-26B had six nose guns (possibly augmented by up to eight additional guns in twin-gun under-wing pods), but later was modified to have eight nose guns and six wing guns (Baughter).

In WWII, Invaders destined for service in Europe had two turrets whereas those destined for service in the Pacific swapped the lower turret for an additional fuel tank, whose capacity is given as either 125 gal (Baughter) or 175 gal (Clayborn, quoted by Drendel, p. 53). Invaders that fought in the Korean War were a mixture of variants with one and two turrets (Clayborn, quoted by Drendel, p. 53; Drendel, pp. 42-80, also shows photos of both in Korea). Invaders that fought in Vietnam in Operation Farm Gate (1961–1964) had their turrets removed (Drendel p. 87-88).

### Guns

Guns specified as 0.5 cal M2 in [8ec22cc](https://github.com/alanwatsonforster/apxo/commit/8ec22cc2e1af97e637dac1ec30304cb45490b675).

The original B-26C had two .50 cal nose guns on the right side. However, I see no evidence for these in the 1950s aircraft shown by Drendel. The letters by McAuliffe and Jamison to JAAHS confirm that although the -C was fitted for two guns at the factory, it flew without guns in Korea (and presumably later). The reason is not completely clear.

The B-26C has only the six .50 cal wing guns compared to the fourteen .50 cal nose and wing guns of the B-26B, but the original ADC does not reduce the gun damage. I have reduced the AtA damage rating from 7 to 4, which matches the six .50 cal guns of the F-80C.

### Radar

In Korea, some B-26Cs carried an H2S radar for night bombing (Baughter).

### Bomb System

The B-26C had a Norden bombsight (Drendel, p. 8). The B-26 also had a bomb signal light in the tail so that a -C could command -Bs when to drop (McAuliffe).

### Loads

Armament in WWII WTO.
- Multiple photos (e..g, in Drendel) show dual .50 cal pods on all four wing hard points in place of the six wing guns.

Armament in WWII PTO.
- Dredel (p. 36) shows a 6-gun -B now with three guns in each wing and 7 rails, presumably for HVARs, under each wing.

In Korea, the turrets could be used to engage targets on the ground (Larson, Drendel p. 53).

The ADC for the -B/-C has on each wing
- One station for 500 lb BB. This can be replaced with rails for 4 HVARs.
- One station for 500 lb BB or FT. This can be replaced with rails for 3 HVARs. 
Drendel (p. 19) shows documentation again with two stations per wing for 500 lb bombs.

Armament in Korea:
- 14 x HVAR and 6 x Mk5 flares (Larson)
- Parachute-retarded bombs (Larson)
- Napalm, but less than 1% of the weight of bombs (Larson)
- 2 x 500 lb under wings and 3000 lb in bomb bay (Fucci)
- 6 x 23 lb "butterfly bomb" AN-M1A4 clusters and napalm (Jamison) 
- 52 x para flares in bomb bay (Jamison)
- 500 lb boms in bomb bay (Jamison)
- 2 x 500 lb GB, 1 x smaller incendiary bomb, and 1 x flare on wing (Jamison)
- Large FT on wing (Jamison)
- Search light and 500 lb (?) bomb under wing (Drendel, p. 47)
- Fourteen HVARs, two 165 gal FTs, or two 110 gal napalm BBs
- Four HVARs (outer) and napalm (inner) (Drendel, p. 68).
- One parachute flare on each HVAR rail (Drendel, p. 73)

- One 500 lb (?) bomb and six HVARS per wind (Drendel, p. 74).

Armament in Vietnam

Farm Gate:

- Six cans of napalm under the wings (Bourne, in Graham)
- Three wings stations on each wing (Williams, in Graham).
- 500 lb napalm or occasionally 500 lb bombs on the wings and 4000 lb of frag clusters in the bomb bay (Williams, in Graham)
- Napalm under the wings and 250 lb frag bombs internally (Rose, in Graham).
- Four to six 500 lb napal cans and 12 x 110 fragmentation bombs in the bomb bay (Kittinger, in Graham).

### B-26K

B-26K converted from 40 B-26s by On Mark Engineering Company (Graham). All B-26Ks were fitted with eight-gun noses and had the wing guns deleted (Graham). Baughter states that these could be replaced by the glass nose, but  all of the images in Graham show them with gun noses. Four were loaned to Belgium for use in in the Congo in 1964 (Graham). Later, they flew interdiction missions in Laos from Nakhon Phanom RTAB in 1966–1969 (Graham). 

- 4000 lb in bomb bay and 8000 lb under wings (Drendel)
- B-26BK (no wing guns) with four stations per wing, two with napalm and one with a RP (Drendel, p. 88).
- two SUU-025 flare dispensers, two LAU-3A RPs, and four CBU-14 units (Drendel)
- 500/750 lb BLU-23/37 finned napalm (Drendel, Graham)
- M31/M32 incendiary clusters (Drendel, Graham)
- M34/M35 incendiary bombs (Drendel)
- M1A4 fragmentation clusters (Drendel)
- M47 white phosphorous bombs (Drendel)
- CBU-14/24/25/29/49 units (Drendel)
- 250/500/750 Mk81/Mk82/M117 BB (Drendel)
- Six flares on a rack on each wing and CBUs (Kittinger, in Graham).
- BLU-10 250 lb unfinned napalm
- BLU-23/32 500 lb finned napalm
- BLU-1/27 750 lb finned napalm

The A-26A was simply a redesignation of the B-26K to as an attack aircraft to avoid having bombers fly from Thailand (Graham).

### RB-26C

Two in Farm Gate
- KA-1 36-inch camera in nose, panoramic and split cameras aft of the cockput. 52 or 54 photoflash cateridges in bomb bay (Alnwick, in Graham).
- 24-inch camera in the nose, 6-inch wide-angle overhead camera, two K36 9-inch cameras left and right in bomb bay, two K17 9-inch cameras overhead and oblique right, in rear compartment. Photo tech in rear comparment. (Phillips, in Graham).

## Bibliography

- [Baughter](http://www.joebaugher.com/usattack/a26.html)
- Drendel, "A/B-26 Invader Illustrated"
- Fucci, “The 37th Bombardment Squadron (L) Night Intruder Black Nights — Korea”, JAAHS, Spring 2018
- [Goebel](https://www.airvectors.net/ava26.html)
- Graham, “Fly By Knights”
- McAuliffe, Letter to JAAHS, Fall 1990.
- Jamison, “Nightmare of the Korean Hills,” JAAHS, Spring 1991
- Jamison, Letter to JAAHS, Summer 1989
- Larson, “Douglas B-26 Invader,” JAAHS, Fall 2002
- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Douglas_A-26_Invader)
